Raja
Raja (1995 film) poster.jpg
Dvd cover
??,??
Directed by	Indra Kumar
Produced by	Indra Kumar
Ashok Thakeria
Written by	Tanveer Khan (dialogues)
Screenplay by	Rajeev Kaul
Praful Parekh
Story by	Naushir Khatau (story advisor)
Starring	Madhuri Dixit
Sanjay Kapoor
Mukesh Khanna
Dalip Tahil
Rita Bhaduri
Paresh Rawal
Himani Shivpuri
Music by	Nadeem-Shravan
Cinematography	Baba Azmi
Edited by	Hussain A. Burmawala
Production
company
Maruti International
Release date
June 23, 1995 (India)
Running time
151 Min
Country	India
Language	Hindi
Raja is an Indian Hindi romantic movie starring Madhuri Dixit, Sanjay Kapoor, Paresh Rawal, Mukesh Khanna and Dalip Tahil.
The film was Sanjay Kapoor's second film after his debut Prem with Tabu in Bollywood. Prem was a flop, but this film, 
though panned by critics to have many flaws did excellent business in Bollywood. Its success was attributed to Madhuri 
Dixit because of her ardent fans. It was the fourth highest grosser of the year at the box office [1] Madhuri Dixit 
received a Filmfare Best Actress Award nomination, and won the Star Screen Award Best Actress for the year.

Contents 
1	Synopsis
2	Cast
3	Awards & Nominations
4	Soundtrack
5	References
6	External links
Synopsis
Rana Mahendra Pratap Garewal (Mukesh Khanna) is a businessman and Vishwa (Dalip Tahil) is his brother. They are good 
friends with Brijnath (Birju) (Paresh Rawal) who is initially very rich but loses all his wealth in a fire in his factory.
The Garewal brothers had initially proposed the marriage of Rana's younger sister Madhu (Madhuri Dixit) and Brijnath's 
younger brother Raja (Sanjay Kapoor) (both are young; their brothers are adults). They break the marriage off. Shocked 
and saddened at the rejection by his best friends, Birju goes mad and gets electrocuted by accident. Raja then stays in 
the city outskirts with his brother taking care of him by doing petty jobs.

After many years, Madhu meets Raja and falls in love. After Raja reveals that he is the same childhood Raja, their love 
deepens. Rana and Vishwa soon find out and are determined to keep Madhu away from Raja. They continually humiliate and 
insult Raja, beating him up and forcing him to walk on broken glass to prove his love. One day Madhu runs away with Raja. 
Eventually, Rana pretends to give in and accept Raja into the family. When Raja leaves the city for a few days, Rana 
invites Birju to stay at the Garewal mansion. While he is there, they have one of their assistants dress up like Birju
 and break into Madhu's room at night and pretend to attempt to rape her. Madhu duly screams that Birju is trying to rape 
her. The assistant quickly escapes; the room is only dimly lit before Madhu can see his face. Rana and Vishwa call a 
mental hospital and force Birju into it as a prisoner in all but name. Raja is now forced to choose between believing 
Madhu's and Birju's words. He chooses to believe his brother's protestations of innocence and breaks up with Madhu. 
However, he still deeply loves her, and it is now up to him to dig for the truth and figure out what happened to Madhu
on that fateful night.

In the end, Raja gets a hold of the assistant who dressed up as Birju and extract a confession from him. In the process 
he has an accident and is critically injured. Birju goes to Madhu asking her to save him but she insults him. Rana's wife
 (Rita Bhaduri) tells the truth to Madhu. Madhu is so shocked to hear that her own brothers set up her rape that she 
leaves them and is on the verge of going to Raja's house. Rana realises his mistake and begs forgiveness, but Vishwa 
doesn't accept and starts beating Madhu and Rana. Raja comes and saves everyone. He marries Madhu in front of everybody. 
In the final scene, Rana and Vishwa come to Raja's house and beg the trio for forgiveness. They forgive the brothers on 
the condition that they bless the marriage of Raja and Madhu.

Cast
Madhuri Dixit as Madhu Garewal
Sanjay Kapoor as Raja
Paresh Rawal as Brijnath 'Birju' Patangwala
Mukesh Khanna as Rana Mahendra Pratap Garewal
Dalip Tahil as Vishwa Garewal
Rita Bhaduri as Sumitra Garewal
Tiku Talsania as Neta Ji
Awards & Nominations
Filmfare Awards : Raja received many awards nominations but lost against Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge.

Nominations'

Filmfare Award for Best Movie: Indra Kumar
Filmfare Award for Best Director: Indra Kumar
Filmfare Best Actress Award: Madhuri Dixit
Filmfare Best Supporting Actor Award: Paresh Rawal
Filmfare Best Supporting Actress Award: Rita Bhaduri
Filmfare Best Music Director Award: Nadeem-Shravan
Filmfare Best Female Playback Award: Alka Yagnik for "Akhiyaan Milaun Kabhi"
Screen Awards: Raja received 2 Screen Awards with Dixit receiving her second award for best actress.